International License Agreement for Early Release of Programs

Part 1 - General Terms

BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, COPYING, ACCESSING, CLICKING ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR OTHERWISE USING THE PROGRAM, LICENSEE AGREES TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT. IF YOU ARE ACCEPTING THESE TERMS ON BEHALF OF LICENSEE, YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE FULL AUTHORITY TO BIND LICENSEE TO THESE TERMS.

IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS OR DO NOT HAVE AUTHORITY: i) DO NOT DOWNLOAD, INSTALL, COPY, ACCESS, CLICK ON AN "ACCEPT" BUTTON, OR USE THE PROGRAM; AND ii) PROMPTLY RETURN THE UNUSED MEDIA, DOCUMENTATION, AND PROOF OF ENTITLEMENT TO THE PARTY FROM WHOM IT WAS OBTAINED FOR A REFUND OF THE AMOUNT PAID. IF THE PROGRAM WAS DOWNLOADED, DESTROY ALL COPIES OF THE PROGRAM.

This International License Agreement for Early Release of Programs (ILAR) and applicable Transaction Documents (together the "Agreement") are the complete agreement between Licensee and IBM regarding the use of a Program. The country required terms included in Part 2 of this ILAR replace or modify the terms of Part 1.

Transaction Documents (TDs) provide a description, information, and terms regarding the Program and its authorized use. Examples of TDs for Programs include license information (LI), licensed program specifications (LPS), quote, proof of entitlement (PoE), or invoice. To the extent of any conflict a TD will prevail over the ILAR.

1. Program License

a. A Program is an executable IBM-branded computer program and its related material and includes whole and partial copies. Program details are described in a TD available at http://www.ibm.com/software/sla (for Passport Advantage Programs) or http://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter (for other IBM Programs), in the Program's system command directory, or as otherwise specified by IBM. IBM software policies (such as backup, temporary use and IBM approved cloud environment) available at http://www.ibm.com/softwarepolicies apply to Licensee's use of Programs.

b. Copies of Programs are copyrighted and licensed.

c. Licensee is granted a nonexclusive limited license to:

(1) use each copy of a Program solely for purposes of testing and providing feedback to IBM prior to general availability of the Program during the Test Period (as defined in the applicable Program TD) ("Authorized Use");

(2) make and install copies to support such Authorized Use; and

(3) make a backup copy.

d. Programs may be used by Licensee, its employees and contractors. Licensee may not use the Program for productive purposes, rent or lease a Program or provide commercial IT, hosting or timesharing services to any third party. Licensee may not export a Program licensed under this ILAR. Additional rights may be available for additional fees or under different terms.

e. The license granted for a Program is subject to Licensee:

(1) reproducing copyright notices and other markings on any copy;

(2) ensuring anyone who uses the Program: i) does so only on Licensee's behalf within Licensee's Authorized Use; and ii) complies with this Agreement;

(3) not disabling any disabling device, reverse assembling, reverse compiling, translating, or reverse engineering the Program, except as expressly permitted by law without the possibility of contractual waiver; and

(4) not using any of the elements of the Program or related licensed materials separately from the Program.

f. If the TD for a Program ("Principal Program") states that a "Supporting Program" is included with the Principal Program, Licensee may use the Supporting Program subject to any license limitations of the Principal Program and only to support the Principal Program.

g. This license applies to each copy of the Program that Licensee makes.

h. An update, fix, or patch to a Program is subject to the terms governing the Program unless new terms are provided in an updated TD. Licensee accepts such new terms upon installation of the update, fix, or patch. If a Program is replaced by an update, Licensee agrees to promptly discontinue use of the replaced Program.

2. Warranties

a. Subject to applicable laws, Programs are provided as-is, with no warranties of any kind, including: i) no warranties for uninterrupted or error-free operation of the Program; or ii) no other warranties such as implied warranties or conditions of satisfactory quality, merchantability, non-infringement, and fitness for a particular purpose.

b. IBM does not provide any support, unless otherwise specified in a TD.

3. Charges, Taxes, Payment, and Verification

a. There are no charges for use of a Program during the Test Period, unless specified otherwise by IBM. If any authority imposes a custom, duty, tax (including withholding tax), levy or fee for the import or export, transfer, access or use of the Program, then Licensee is responsible to pay any such amount imposed.

3.1 Licensing Verification

a. Licensee will, for all Programs at all sites and for all environments, create, retain, and provide to IBM upon request: i) a report, in a format requested by IBM using records, system tools output, and other system information; and ii) supporting documentation (collectively, "Deployment Data").

b. Upon reasonable notice, IBM and its independent auditors may verify Licensee's compliance with this Agreement, at all sites and for all environments in which Licensee uses (for any purposes) Programs. Verification will be conducted in a manner that minimizes disruption to Licensee's business and may be conducted on Licensee's premises, during normal business hours. IBM will have a written confidentiality agreement with the independent auditor. In addition to providing Deployment Data described above, Licensee agrees to provide to IBM and its auditors additional accurate information and Deployment Data upon request.

c. Licensee will promptly order and pay charges at IBM's then current rates associated with: i) any deployments or use in excess of authorizations or in violation of this Agreement, indicated on or by any verification; ii) applicable subscription & support services (S&S) for such excess deployments for the lesser of the duration of such excess use or two years; and iii) any additional charges and other liabilities determined as a result of such verification, including but not limited to taxes, duties, and regulatory fees.

4. Liability

a. IBM's entire liability for all claims related to this Agreement will not exceed the amount of any actual direct damages incurred by Licensee up to the greater of: i) U.S. $10,000.00 (or equivalent in local currency); or ii) up to the amounts paid (if recurring charges, up to 12 months' charges apply) for the entitlements to the Program that is the subject of the claim, regardless of the basis of the claim. IBM will not be liable for special, incidental, exemplary, indirect, or economic consequential damages, or for lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings. These limitations apply collectively to IBM, its affiliates, contractors, and suppliers.

b. The following amounts are not subject to the above cap: damages that cannot be limited under applicable law.

c. IBM has no responsibility for claims based on non-IBM products, items not provided by IBM, or any violation of law or third party rights caused by Content, or any Licensee materials, designs, specifications. Content consists of all data, software, and information that Licensee or its authorized users provide, authorize access to, or inputs to a Program.

5. Termination

a. The Test Period begins on the date Licensee agrees to the terms of this Agreement and ends upon the earliest of: i) the date specified in the applicable Program TD; ii) the date on which the Program automatically disables itself; or iii) the date on which IBM makes the Program commercially available. Licensee will destroy the Program and all copies made of it within ten days of the end of the Test Period. Licensee is responsible to remove any Content prior to expiration of the Test Period as any disabling device may prevent use upon expiration.

b. IBM may terminate Licensee's license to use a Program if Licensee fails to comply with the ILAR, TDs or acquisition agreements, such as the International Passport Advantage Agreement (IPAA). Licensee will promptly destroy all copies of the Program after license termination. Any terms that by their nature extend beyond the termination remain in effect until fulfilled and apply to successors and assignees.

6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope

a. Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed, without regard to conflict of law principles. The rights and obligations of each party are valid only in the country where the transaction to acquire license entitlements is performed or, if IBM agrees, the country where the Program is placed in productive use, except all licenses are valid as specifically granted.

b. Each party is also responsible for complying with: i) laws and regulations applicable to its business and Content; and ii) import, export and economic sanction laws and regulations, including the defense trade control regime of the United States of America and any applicable jurisdictions, that prohibit or restrict the import, export, re-export, or transfer of products, technology, services or data, directly or indirectly, to or for certain countries, end uses or end users.

c. If any provision of this Agreement for a Program, is invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions remain in full force and effect. Nothing in this Agreement affects statutory rights of consumers that cannot be waived or limited by contract. The United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods does not apply to transactions under this Agreement.

7. General

a. IBM is an independent contractor, not Licensee's agent, joint venturer, partner, or fiduciary, and does not undertake to perform any of Licensee's regulatory obligations, or assume any responsibility for Licensee's business or operations. Licensee is responsible for its use of IBM Programs and Non-IBM Programs. IBM is acting as an information technology provider only. IBM's direction, suggested usage, or guidance or use of a Program does not constitute medical, clinical, legal, accounting, or other licensed professional advice. Licensee should obtain its own expert advice.

b. For Programs IBM provides to Licensee in tangible form, IBM fulfills its shipping and delivery obligations upon the delivery of such Programs to the IBM-designated carrier, unless otherwise agreed to in writing by Licensee and IBM.

c. Licensee may not use the Program if failure of the Program could lead to death, serious bodily injury, or property or environmental damage.

d. IBM, its affiliates, and contractors of either require use of business contact information and certain account usage information. This information is not Content. Business contact information is used to communicate and manage business dealings with the Licensee. Examples of business contact information include name, business telephone, address, email, user ID, and tax registration information. Account usage information is required to enable, provide, manage, support, administer, and improve Programs. Examples of account usage information include reported errors and digital information gathered using tracking technologies, such as cookies and web beacons, during use of the Programs. The IBM Privacy Statement at http://www.ibm.com/privacy provides additional details with respect to IBM's collection, use, and handling of business contact and account usage information. When Licensee provides information to IBM and notice to, or consent by, the individuals is required for such processing, Licensee will notify individuals and obtain consent.

e. IBM Business Partners who use or make available Programs are independent from IBM and unilaterally determine their prices and terms. IBM is not responsible for their actions, omissions, statements, or offerings.

f. IBM may offer Non-IBM Programs, or an IBM Program may enable access to Non-IBM Programs, that may require acceptance of third party terms identified in a TD or presented to the Licensee. Linking to or use of Non-IBM Programs constitutes Licensee's agreement with such terms. IBM is not a party to such third party agreements and is not responsible for such Non-IBM Programs.

g. License grants to Programs are provided by International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation ("IBM Corporation"). The IBM company from which the Licensee acquires entitlements ("IBM") is acting as a distributor and delivering Programs and is responsible for enforcing the terms of this Agreement. If entitlements are acquired from an IBM Business Partner, the IBM company for the country of acquisition is responsible for enforcing the terms of this Agreement. No right or cause of action is created in favor of Licensee against IBM Corporation. Licensee waives all claims and causes of action against IBM Corporation and agrees to look solely to IBM for any rights and remedies in connection with Programs.

h. Licensee may not sublicense, assign, or transfer the license for any Program (except to the extent assignment or transfer may not be legally restricted or as is expressly permitted in a TD or as otherwise agreed by IBM). IBM may assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement in conjunction with the sale of the portion of IBM's business that includes a Program. IBM may share this Agreement and related documents in conjunction with any assignment.

i. All notices under the Agreement must be in writing and sent to the business address specified in the agreement Licensee acquired the license entitlements unless a party designates in writing a different address. The parties consent to the use of electronic means and facsimile transmissions for communications as a signed writing. Any reproduction of the Agreement made by reliable means is considered an original. Agreement supersedes any course of dealing, discussions or representations, between the parties.

j. No right or cause of action for any third party is created by the Agreement. Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose. Neither party is responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes beyond its control. Each party will allow the other reasonable opportunity to comply before it claims the other has not met its obligations.

k. IBM may use personnel and resources in locations worldwide, including third party contractors to support the delivery of Programs and Program support. Licensee's use of Programs may result in the transfer of Content, including personally identifiable information, across country borders to provide Program support as described in the IBM Software Support Guide.

Part 2 - Country Required Terms

For licenses acquired in the countries specified below, the following terms replace or modify the referenced terms of this ILAR. Terms not changed by these amendments remain unchanged and in effect.

1. AMERICAS

Section 4. Liability

Insert the following disclaimer at the end of paragraph a:

In Peru: In accordance with Article 1328 of the Peruvian Civil Code this limitations and exclusions will not apply in the cases of willful misconduct ("dolo") or gross negligence ("culpa inexcusable").

Section 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope

In paragraph a, replace the first sentence only with:

In Argentina: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the Republic of Argentina, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any proceeding regarding the rights, duties, and obligations arising from this Agreement will be brought in the Ordinary Commercial Court of the City of "Ciudad Autónoma de Buenos Aires".

In Chile: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Chile, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any conflict, interpretation or breach related to this Agreement that cannot be solved by the Parties should be remitted to the jurisdiction of the Ordinary Courts of the city and district of Santiago.

In Colombia: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the Republic of Colombia, without regard to the conflict of law principles. All rights, duties and obligations are subject to the judges of the Republic of Colombia.

In Ecuador: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of the Republic of Ecuador, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any dispute arising out or relating to this Agreement will be submitted to the civil judges of Quito and to the verbal summary proceeding.

In Venezuela: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Venezuela, without regard to the conflict of law principles. The parties agree to submit any conflict related to this Agreement, existing between them to the Courts of the Metropolitan Area of the City of Caracas.

In Peru: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Peru, without regard to the conflict of law principles. Any discrepancy that may arise between the parties in the execution, interpretation or compliance of this Agreement that may not be directly resolved shall be submitted to the Jurisdiction and Competence of the Judges and Tribunals of the 'Cercado de Lima' Judicial District.

In Uruguay: Both parties agree to the application of the laws of Uruguay. Any discrepancy that may arise between the parties in the execution, interpretation or compliance of this Agreement that may not be directly resolved shall be submitted to the Montevideo Courts ("Tribunales Ordinarios de Montevideo").

In paragraph a, first sentence only, replace the phrase, "the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed" with:

In United States, Anguilla, Antigua/Barbuda, Aruba, Bahamas, Barbados, Bermuda, Bonaire, British Virgin Islands, Cayman Islands, Curacao, Dominica, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Montserrat, Saba, Saint Eustatius, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Maarten, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Suriname, Tortola, Trinidad and Tobago, and Turk and Caicos: the State of New York, United States.

In Canada: the Province of Ontario and the federal laws of Canada applicable therein.

In paragraph a, second sentence, replace the phrase, "the country where the transaction to acquire license entitlements is performed" with:

In Argentina: Argentina

In Chile: Chile

In Colombia: Colombia

In Ecuador: Ecuador

In Mexico: Mexico

In Peru: Peru

In Uruguay: Uruguay

In Venezuela: Venezuela

Add the following sentences at the end of paragraph b:

In Brazil: All disputes arising out of or related to this Agreement, including summary proceedings, will be brought before and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Forum of the City of São Paulo, State of São Paulo, Brazil and the parties irrevocably agree with this specific jurisdiction renouncing any other, however privileged it may be.

In Mexico: The Parties agree to submit themselves to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of Mexico City to resolve any dispute arising from this Agreement. The Parties waive to any other jurisdiction that may correspond to them due to their current or future domiciles, or for any other reason.

Section 7. General

In paragraph g:

In United States: delete the last 2 sentences.

In paragraph i, add the following new sentence after the first sentence:

In Mexico: Any change of address must be notified 10 (ten) days in advance, otherwise the notifications made at the last indicated address will have full legal effects.

In paragraph j:

In Brazil: delete the entire 2nd sentence of "Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose".

Add as a new paragraph l to this section:

In Canada: Both parties agree to write this document in English. Les parties ont convenu de rédiger le présent document en langue anglaise.

2. ASIA PACIFIC

Section 2. Warranties

Add at the end of this section as a new paragraph c:

In Australia: These warranties are in addition to any rights under, and only limited to the extent permitted by, the Competition and Consumer Act 2010.

In Japan: IBM's liability is limited to this paragraph and the Liability section, applicable TDs as Licensee's sole remedy for failure to meet the warranties specified in this section.

In New Zealand: These warranties are in addition to any rights under the Consumer Guarantee Act 1993 or other legislation that cannot be limited by law.

Section 4. Liability

In paragraph a, add at the end of the first sentence the following:

In Australia: (for example, whether based in contract, tort, negligence, under statute or otherwise)

In paragraph a, second sentence after the word "special" and before the word "incidental", add the following:

In Philippines: (including nominal and exemplary damages), moral,

Section 5. Termination

Add at the end of the section as a new paragraph d:

In Indonesia: The parties waive article 1266 of the Indonesian Civil Code to the extent it requires a court decree for the termination of an agreement creating mutual obligations.

Section 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope

In paragraph a, in the first sentence only, replace the phrase, "the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed" with:

In Cambodia, Laos: the State of New York, United States

In Australia: the State or Territory in which the transaction is performed

In Hong Kong: the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China

In Macau: the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China

In Korea: the Republic of Korea, and subject to the Seoul Central District Court of the Republic of Korea

In Taiwan: Taiwan

In India: India

In paragraph b, in the first sentence, item ii), after the word "including" and before word "defense", add:

In Japan: those of Japan laws and

In paragraph a, in the second sentence, replace the phrase "the country where the transaction to acquire license entitlements is performed or, if IBM agrees, the country where the Program is placed in productive use" with:

In Hong Kong: the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China

In Macau: the Macau Special Administrative Region of the People's Republic of China

In Taiwan: Taiwan

Add at the end of the section as a new paragraph d:

In Cambodia, Laos, Philippines, and Sri Lanka: Disputes will be finally settled by arbitration in Singapore under the Arbitration Rules of the Singapore International Arbitration Center ("SIAC Rules").

In India: Disputes shall be finally settled in accordance with The Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 then in effect, in English, with seat in Bangalore, India. There shall be one arbitrator if the amount in dispute is less than or equal to Indian Rupee five crores and three arbitrators if the amount is more. When an arbitrator is replaced, proceedings shall continue from the stage they were at when the vacancy occurred.

In Indonesia: Disputes will be finally settled by arbitration in Jakarta, Indonesia, administered by the Indonesian National Board of Arbitration established in the year 1977 ("Badan Arbitrase Nasional Indonesia" or "BANI") in accordance with the rules of the Indonesian National Board of Arbitration The arbitration award shall be final and binding on the parties without appeal and shall be in writing and set forth the findings of fact and the conclusion of law.

In People's Republic of China: Either party has the right to submit the dispute to the China International Economic and Trade Arbitration Commission in Beijing, the PRC, for arbitration. The parties agree three arbitrators will be used to resolve any dispute.

In Vietnam: Disputes will be finally settled by arbitration in Vietnam under the Arbitration Rules of the Vietnam International Arbitration Centre ("VIAC Rules"). All proceedings and documents presented will be in the English language.

Section 7. General

In paragraph j, in the second sentence, replace the phrase "two years" with:

In India: three years

Add to the end of this section the following new paragraph l:

In Indonesia: This agreement is made in the English and Bahasa Indonesian language versions. To the extent permitted by the applicable law, the English version will prevail in the event of conflict between such versions.

3. EUROPE, MIDDLE EAST, AND AFRICA

Section 4. Liability

In paragraph a, in the first sentence insert the following before the words "the amounts paid":

In Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Portugal, and Spain: the greater of €500,000 (five hundred thousand euro) or

In Ireland and United Kingdom: 125% of

In paragraph a, in the first sentence, replace the phrase "direct damages incurred by Licensee" with:

In Spain: and proven damages incurred by Licensee as a direct consequence of the IBM default

In paragraph a, insert after the first sentence the following new sentence:

In Slovakia: Referring to § 379 of the Commercial Code, Act No. 513/1991 Coll. as amended, and concerning all conditions related to the conclusion of the agreement, both parties state that the total foreseeable damage, which may accrue, shall not exceed the amount above, and it is the maximum for which IBM is responsible.

In paragraph a, insert before the second sentence the following new sentence:

In Russia: IBM will not be liable for the forgone benefit.

In paragraph a, in the second sentence, delete the word:

In Ireland and United Kingdom: economic

In paragraph a, replace the second sentence with:

In Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg: IBM will not be liable for indirect or consequential damages, lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, damage to reputation or anticipated savings, any third party claim against Licensee, and loss of (or damage to) data.

In France: IBM will not be liable for damages to reputation, indirect damages, or lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.

In Portugal: IBM will not be liable for indirect damages, including loss of profit.

In Spain: IBM will not be liable for damage to reputation, lost profits, business, value, revenue, goodwill, or anticipated savings.

Add the following at the end of paragraph a:

In France: The terms of the Agreement, including financial terms, were established in consideration of the present clause, which is an integral part of the general economy of the Agreement.

In paragraph b, replace "damages that cannot be limited under applicable law" with the following:

In Germany: i) damages for body injury (including death); ii) loss or damage caused by a breach of guarantee assumed by IBM in connection with any transaction under this Agreement; and iii) caused intentionally or by gross negligence.

Section 6. Governing Laws and Geographic Scope

In paragraph a, first sentence only, replace the phrase "the country where the transaction for license entitlements is performed" with:

In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: Austria

In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: Finland

In Algeria, Andorra, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Comoros, Congo Republic, Djibouti, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Lebanon, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mayotte, Morocco, New Caledonia, Niger, Reunion, Senegal, Seychelles, Togo, Tunisia, Vanuatu, and Wallis and Futuna: France

In Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, West Bank/Gaza, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: England

In Liechtenstein: Switzerland

In South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: the Republic of South Africa

In United Kingdom: England

In paragraph a, add the following at the end of the first sentence:

In France: The Parties agree that articles 1222 and 1223 of the French Civil Code are not applicable.

Add the following at the end of paragraph a:

In Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the International Arbitral Centre of the Austrian Federal Economic Chamber (Arbitration Body), under the Rules of Arbitration of that Arbitral Centre (Vienna Rules), in Vienna, Austria, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Vienna Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Vienna Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 500,000.00.

In Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the Arbitration Institute of the Finland Chamber of Commerce (FAI) (Arbitration Body), under the Arbitration Rules of the Finland Chamber of Commerce (Rules), in Helsinki, Finland, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with those Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 500,000.00.

In Afghanistan, Angola, Bahrain, Botswana, Burundi, Cape Verde, Djibouti, Egypt, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malawi,, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Palestinian Territory, Qatar, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia, South Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Western Sahara, Yemen, Zambia, and Zimbabwe: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the London Court of International Arbitration (LCIA) (Arbitration Body), under the LCIA Arbitration Rules (the Rules), in London, UK, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 500,000.00.

In Algeria, Benin, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo Republic, Democratic Republic of Congo, Equatorial Guinea, French Guiana, French Polynesia, Gabon, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Niger, Senegal, Togo, and Tunisia: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the ICC International Court of Arbitration, in Paris (Arbitration Body), under its arbitration rules (the Rules), in Paris, France, with French as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 250,000.00.

In South Africa, Namibia, Lesotho, and Swaziland: All disputes arising out of this Agreement shall be finally settled by the Arbitration Foundation of Southern Africa (AFSA) (Arbitration Body), under the Rules of the Arbitration of the AFSA (the Rules), in Johannesburg, South Africa, with English as the official language, by three impartial arbitrators appointed in accordance with the Rules. Each party will nominate one arbitrator, who will jointly appoint an independent chairman within 30 days or else the chairman will be appointed by the Arbitration Body under the Rules. The arbitrators will have no authority to award injunctive relief or damages excluded by or exceeding limits in this Agreement. Nothing in this Agreement will prevent either party from resorting to judicial proceedings for (1) interim relief to prevent material prejudice or a breach of confidentiality provisions or intellectual property rights, or (2) determining the validity or ownership of any copyright, patent or trademark owned or asserted by a party or its Enterprise company, or (3) debt collection in amounts below USD 250,000.00.

In Andorra, Austria, Cyprus, France, Germany, Greece, Israel, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, and Turkey: All disputes will be brought before and subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the following court of competent jurisdiction:

In Andorra: the Commercial Court of Paris.

In Austria: the court of Vienna, Austria (Inner City).

In Cyprus: the competent court of Nicosia.

In France: Commercial Court of Paris.

In Germany: the courts of Stuttgart.

In Greece: the competent court of Athens.

In Israel: the courts of Tel Aviv Jaffa.

In Italy: the courts of Milan.

In Portugal: the courts of Lisbon.

In Spain: the courts of Madrid.

In Switzerland: the commercial court of the canton of Zurich.

In Turkey: the Istanbul Central (Caglayan) Courts and Execution Directorates of Istanbul, the Republic of Turkey.

In Netherlands: The Parties waive their rights under Title 7.1 ('Koop') and clause 7:401 and 402 of the Dutch Civil Code, and their rights to invoke a full or partial dissolution ('gehele of partiele ontbinding') of this Agreement under section 6:265 of the Dutch Civil Code.

Section 7. General

In paragraph d, insert the following at the end of the paragraph:

In Spain: IBM will comply with requests to access, update or delete contact information if submitted to the following address: IBM, c/ Santa Hortensia 26-28, 28002 Madrid, Departamento de Privacidad de Datos.

In paragraph j, add to the end the paragraph:

In Czech Republic: Pursuant to Section 1801 of Act No. 89/2012 Coll. (the "Civil Code"), Section 1799 and Section 1800 of the Civil Code as amended, do not apply to transactions under this Agreement. Licensee accepts the risk of a change of circumstances under Section 1765 of the Civil Code.

In paragraph j:

In Bulgaria, Croatia, Russia, Serbia, and Slovenia: delete the 2nd sentence that says: "Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than two years after the cause of action arose".

In paragraph j, add to the end of the second sentence:

In Lithuania: , except as provided by law

In paragraph j, replace the second sentence with:

In Poland: Neither party will bring a legal action arising out of or related to the Agreement more than three years after the cause of action arose, except for an action of non-payment which will be brought no more than 2 years after payment is due.

In paragraph j, second sentence, replace the word "two" with:

In Latvia and Ukraine: three

In Slovakia: four

In paragraph j, add to the end of the third sentence that says: "Neither party is responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes beyond its control":

In Russia: , including but not limited to earthquakes, floods, fires, acts of God, strikes (excluding strikes of the parties' employees), acts of war, military actions, embargoes, blockades, international or governmental sanctions, and acts of authorities of the applicable jurisdiction.

In paragraph j, third sentence, modify the sentence: "Neither party is responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes beyond its control" as follows:

In Ukraine: Neither party is responsible for failure to fulfill its non-monetary obligations due to causes or regulatory changes beyond its control, including but not limited to import, export and economic sanctions requirements of the United States.

Add the following at the end of the section as new paragraph l:

In Hungary: By entering into this Agreement, Licensee confirms that Licensee was sufficiently informed of all the provisions of this Agreement and had the opportunity to negotiate those terms. The following provisions may significantly deviate from the provisions generally applied by Hungarian law and both parties accept those provisions by signing the Agreement: Program License; Warranties; Charges, Taxes, Payment, and Verification; Liability; Termination; Governing Laws and Geographic Scope; and General.

In Czech Republic: Licensee expressly accepts the terms of this agreement which include the following important commercial terms: i) limitation and disclaimer of liability for defects (Warranties); ii) limitation of Licensee's entitlement to damages (Liability); iii) binding nature of export and import regulations (Governing Laws and Geographic Scope); iv) shorter limitation periods (General); v) exclusion of applicability of provisions on adhesion contracts (General); and vi) acceptance of the risk of a change of circumstances (General).

In Romania: The Licensee expressly accepts, the following standard clauses that may be deemed 'unusual clauses' as per the provisions of article 1203 Romanian Civil Code: clauses 2, 4, 5, 8j. The Licensee hereby acknowledges that it was sufficiently informed of all the provisions of this Agreement, including the clauses mentioned above, it properly analyzed and understood such provisions and had the opportunity to negotiate the terms of each clause.

i125-5544-07 (10-2021)
